# Marlin Z offset finder

This is a simple g-code script to allow you to find the correct z-offset for your printer's bed-level probe. This script assumes that the probe is correctly positioned, ie, that it triggers safely **below** the nozzle and that the **offset will not exceed 3mm**. If your probe is connected to an endstop, you should make sure that ABORT_ON_ENDSTOP_HIT_FEATURE_ENABLED is disabled in Configuration_adv.h. I'm not responsible if your nozzle crashes into the bed or anything else bad happens.

# Usage

Start by looking at the beginning of the script. It'll heat the nozzle to 150ยบ to soften any plastic that might be stuck to it. Adjust this value or remove the line if you like. Then it'll heat the bed to 65ยบ and wait 1 minute to allow the temperature to stabilize. Adjust these values if necessary. Note that, for best results, this startup sequence should correspond to what your slicer produces. After probing, it'll move the nozzle to (111, 111, 0). Adjust this position if you have a bed that is significantly larger or smaller than 20x20cm, but keep Z at 0. Finally, each Z step is 0.08mm because that's a multiple of the 0.04mm magic Z number in a lot of printers. Adjust the steps if your printer has a different magic Z number.

Next, run the script on your printer. Usually, that's done by copying it to an SD card and 'printing' it. It'll heat up, probe, and wait for you to press OK on the printer. Each time you press OK, the nozzle will lower by 0.08mm. Check the distance with a piece of paper between the nozzle and the bed. Stop lowering when you can feel significant friction when moving the paper beneath the nozzle. Note that if the paper gets stuck between the nozzle and the bed, you've lowered it too far. The distance shown (at -x.xxmm) is your correct Z-offset. Take note of the value and **turn off the printer** to terminate the script. You can put the value to use by saving it to EEPROM in Marlin's Control/Motion menu, by putting an [M851](http://marlinfw.org/docs/gcode/M851.html) line in your slicer's start g-code, or by setting Z_PROBE_OFFSET_FROM_EXTRUDER in Marlin's Configuration.h.
